
== Incubator Application Questionnaire (ZOO-Project) ==


=== 1. Please provide the name and email address of the principal Project Owner. ===

* Gérald FENOY, Chair ZOO PSC, gerald.fenoy@geolabs.fr

=== 2. Please provide the names and emails of co-project owners (if any). ===

* Venkatesh RAGHAVAN raghavan@osaka-cu.ac.jp
* Nicolas BOZON nicolas.bozon@gmail.com

=== 3. Please provide the names, emails and entity affiliation of all official committers ===

* Rémi Cresson (IRSTEA) remi.cresson@teledetection.fr
* Luca DELUCCHI (Fondazioen Edmund Mach) lucadeluge@gmail.com 
* René-Luc D'HONT (3LIZ) rldhont@3liz.com
* Gérald FENOY (GeoLabs) gerald.fenoy@geolabs.fr
* Jeff McKenna (Gateway Geomatics) jmckenna@gatewaygeomatics.com
* David SAGGIORATO (Cleolys) david@saggiorato.net
* Marco NEGRETTI (Politecnico di Milano) marco.negretti@polimi.it
* Angelos Tzotsos (National technical university of Athens) gcpp.kalxas@gmail.com
* Knut Landmark (Norwegian Defence Research Establishment) Knut.Landmark@ffi.no


=== 4. Please describe your Project. ===

ZOO-Project is an Open Geospatial Consortium Web Processing Service (OGC WPS) open source project released under a MIT/X-11 style license. It provides an OGC WPS compliant developer-friendly framework to create and chain WPS Web services. ZOO-Project is made of three parts: 

* ZOO-Kernel: A powerful server-side C Kernel which makes it possible to manage and chain Web services coded in different programming languages. 

* ZOO-Services: A growing suite of example Web services based on various Open Source libraries. (get inspired !) 

* ZOO-API: A server-side JavaScript API able to call and chain the ZOO Services, which makes the development and chaining processes easier. 

* ZOO-Client: A JavaScript library to be used from client side to interact with a WPS implementation

=== 5. Why is hosting at OSGeo good for your project? ===

ZOO-Project has been part of the OSGeo ecosystem since 2009 and we would like to continue this relationship to provide robust WPS framework to OSGeo stack.

Hosting the ZOO-Project on the OSGeo server infrastructure is planned for hosting the dynamic part of the web site (mainly the demonstrations UI).

If 'Hosting' means to be 'under the foundation umbrella' here, then of course it would be great benefit for the project and will help it to target a larger audience. It will also probably help the projects member to promote and spread even more WPS around.

=== 6. Type of application this project represent(client, server, standalone, library, etc.): ===

The ZOO-Project provides:

* OGC WPS Server Implementation (versions 1.0.0 and 2.0.0) and,
* OGC API - Processes Server Implementation
* OGC WPS Client for version 1.0.0 and 2.0.0 

=== 7. Please describe any relationships to other open source projects. ===

Since its inception in 2008, ZOO-Project was designed to communicate with the other OSGeo librairies, and to make them interact in a standardized way. The main task of the ZOO-Project is to make OSGeo libraires run on the server-side to provide WPS Services.

* GDAL: the following ZOO Services are available: gdalinfo, gdal_grid, gdal_translate, gdal_extractProfile, ogrinfo, ogr2ogr 

* MapServer: ZOO-Kernel has an optional support fo MapServer Support (--with mapserver at compil). In this case ZOO Kernel is able to spread the ZOO Service results as WMS/WFS/WCS 	(write a mapfile on the fly)

* OrfeoToolBox: ZOO-Kernel is able to run most of the OTB applications (or modules) as WPS services

Other analytical softwares are also supported such as:
* SAGA-GIS
* R
* CGAL
* OpenOffice


=== 8. Please describe any relationships with commercial companies or products. ===

GeoLabs, Cleolys, Cartogenic, Cartworks, Coillte, GeniFoncier, KelFoncier, Nigelec, Cabinet Sady & Thiam are currently using ZOO-Project for geospatial business and deployment of SDI solutions.

ZOO-Project is used by MapMint, an open source Web GIS solution developed by GeoLabs and Cartoworks (see http://www.mapmint.com)

=== 9. Which open source license(s) will the source code be released under? ===

ZOO-Kernel is published under the term of the MIT/X11 open source licence.

ZOO-Services can contain their own licence term, by now only MIT/X11 is used.

ZOO-API is published under the term of BSD licence ([https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/blob/main/zoo-project/zoo-api/js/ZOO-api.js ZOO-api.js]) and MIT ([https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/blob/main/zoo-project/zoo-api/js/ZOO-proj4js.js ZOO-proj4js.js]).

ZOO-Project documentation is open source and made available under the [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License].

=== 10. Is there already a beta or official release? ===

Yes. ZOO-Project 1.8.0 official release is available here : http://zoo-project.org/site/Downloads

=== 11. What is the origin of your project (commercial, experimental, thesis or other higher education, government, or some other source)? ===

The project started as an experimental prototype (2008) to provide proof of concept Web Processing Service Server Implementation. Based on this, the prototype was modified an enhanced in various project in university and several thesis has been led using it.

Since 2012, as the project become stable and robust, more than 100 projects has been deployed as commercial solutions using the ZOO-Project features.

Various reseach and development projects has been handled using the ZOO-Project as a base for implementing new supports, such as the WPS 2.0 support, the HPC support and it new version.

=== 12. Does the project support open standards? Which ones and to what extent? (OGC, w3c, etc.) Has the software been certified to any standard (CITE for example)? If not, is it the intention of the project owners to seek certification at some point? ===

The ZOO-Project implements WPS version 1.0.0 and 2.0.0, also try to provide an implementation of the latest OGC API - Processes.

Yes. ZOO-Project is based on the Web Processing Service 1.0.0 specification. It also implements WPS 2.0.0 and OGC API - Processes.

The software wasn't certified yet because of lack of CITE implementation for the WPS standard, but we have implemented a testing suite ((cptesting)[https://github.com/WPS-Benchmarking/cptesting]) for our implementation using some OpenSource tools: libxml2 and xsltproc to handle the XML / XSD validation.

=== 13. Is the code free of patents, trademarks, and do you control the copyright? ===

Yes, the code is free of patents and trademarks.

ZOO-Kernel is copyrighted by the GeoLabs company

ZOO-Services may include their own copyrights, for example GDAL services retain the original copyright.

ZOO-API is copyrighted by the OpenLayers Contributors and the 3LIZ company

=== 14. How many people actively contribute (code, documentation, other?) to the project at this time? ===

	4 people: Gérald Fenoy, Jeff McKenna, Angelos Tzotsos, Knut Landmark

=== 15. How many people have commit access to the source code respository? ===

	12 people all people listed in item 3 have commit access

=== 16. Approximately how many users are currently using this project? ===

It is difficult to give the exact number projects using ZOO-Project but it should be more 500 persons.

=== 17. What type of users does your project attract (government, commercial, hobby, academic research, etc. )? ===

* Hobby
* Government
* Academic
* Commercial

=== 18. If you do not intend to host any portion of this project using the OSGeo infrastructure, why should you be considered a member project of the OSGeo Foundation? ===

Presently, the ZOO-Project mailing list is hosted on OSGeo infrastructure.

As in case of other OSGeo projects, ZOO-Project code repository is also currently moved to GitHub.

If OSGeo provides support for hosting docker-compose system, we would be very glad to host the ZOO-Project web site there.

When any other infrastructure will be available, we would be very happy to use it. Once the ZOO-Project graduates we would like to host the ZOO-Project web site pin the OSGeo infrastructure.

Microsoft is providing hosting budget to the OpenSource project for.

The ZOO-Project is a mature and functional open source implementation of WPS 1.0.0 and 2.0.0 specifications. It also implements the current OGC API - Processes.

Incubation would help to promote the ZOO-Project to a larger audience and that will probably attract new contributors to the project.

ZOO-Project is willing to use the other OSGeo softwares trough WPS and to promote both. WPS is a important field of research in the geospatial field. 

ZOO-Project PSC members are active in the OSGeo activities, FOSS4G, code sprints and local chapters.

=== 19. Does the project include an automated build and test? ===

A first test suite was integrated for 1.2.0 release including ZOO-Services (and ZOO-Kernel) testing.

Automatic build system is handled by GitHub Actions. It does include building, deployment and testing of the application.

=== 20. What language(s) are used in this project? (C/Java/perl/etc) ===

Mainly in C and C++ but as the ZOO-Kernel does support multiple programming languages, it implies the following list for minimal ZOO-API definition to ease ZOO-Service development:
*	C/C++
*	Fortran
*	Java
*	Perl
*	Python
*	PHP
*	JavaScript
*	R

=== 21. What is the dominant written language (i.e. English, French, Spanish, German, etc) of the core developers? ===

*	English
*	French
*	Japanese
*	Thai

=== 22. What is the (estimated) size of a full release of this project? How many users do you expect to download the project when it is released? ===

Size of a release including documentation is less than 1M.

The Estimated download per release is more than 856 (Docker Hub statistic)[https://hub.docker.com/u/djayzen].




