
== OSGeo Incubation Status ==

=== General ===

===== Has the project been approved for incubation by the OSGeo board? ===== 
Yes 

=====  Has an Incubation Mentor been assigned to the project? ===== 

Yes.  The project has had a few mentors over time:

* Frank Warmerdam (2012-2016)
* Dimitris Kotzinos (2016-2022)
* Tom Kralidis (@tomkralidis) (2022-2023)

=== Infrastructure Transition ===

Note, for each of the following it isn't necessary to move to foundation infrastructure, but if you aren't a reason should be provided.

===== Has the zoo-project.osgeo.org domain been populated with the projects web presence? =====
Yes: https://www.osgeo.org/projects/zoo-project. A direct link to http://zoo-project.org/ is also used from the main osgeo.org home page, via the "Projects -> Community Projects" menu.

===== Is the OSGeo bug tracker being used for the project? ===== 
No.  Issues are managed via [https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/issues GitHub] for integration with version control.  The project's previous Trac infrastructure/issue tracker continues to be available at http://zoo-project.org/trac as a reference.

===== Is the OSGeo mailing list manager (https://lists.osgeo.org/) being used for the project? ===== 
Yes we migrated from Osaka City University (OCU) mailman to OSGeo one.  The following mailing lists are available:
* https://lists.osgeo.org/mailman/listinfo/zoo-discuss (overall project/community discussions)
* https://lists.osgeo.org/mailman/listinfo/zoo-psc (PSC discussions)

===== Is the OSGeo SVN being used for the project? ===== 
No, the project uses Git/GitHub (https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project) for source code management, wiki and issues.

The project's previous Trac infrastructure/version control continues to be available at http://zoo-project.org/trac/browser as reference.

===== Are binary and source downloads available from http://download.osgeo.org ? ===== 
No, releases are made available via GitHub releases: https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/releases

=== Community Functioning ===

===== Is there a functioning user support mechanisms (ie. mailing list)? ===== 
Yes.  The project provides mailing lists, IRC channels (libera.chat#zoo-project), as well as via discussions in GitHub issues and Pull Requests.

===== Are source and binary downloads for the package available? ===== 
Yes. Source is available at https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project. Download are available via GitHub releases at https://github.com/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/releases. ZOO-project is also available on the OSGeo-Live project (https://live.osgeo.org/en/quickstart/zoo-project_quickstart.html), as well as UbuntuGIS packaging.  Linux and Windows builds are available.


===== Has a Project Steering Committee been formed, and given control of the project? ===== 
Yes a Project Steering Committee has been formed and have effective control on the project (http://zoo-project.org/docs/contribute/contributors.html?highlight=psc#zoo-project-project-steering-commitee).  The PSC consists of 10 members from 7 countries from industry and academia.

===== Does the Project Steering Committee have documentation on project procedures for PSC decisions, contributor guidelines, etc. ===== 
Yes, there is a contributor guidelines [http://zoo-project.org/docs/community/developer.html here] and for PSC decisions there is the Project Steering Committee Guidelines available at: [[PSC:-process]].

===== How many active developers are there? Are they from multiple organizations? ===== 
There are 11 developers/committers, and 6 active contributors.

Organizations: GeoLabs SARL), Politecnico di Milano), SUPSI, AppTech, Georepublic, Gateway Geomatics), Fondazione Edmund Mach), Osaka City University), and National Technical University of Athens).

=== Foundation Membership ===

===== Have project documents been updated to reflect membership in the foundation, and the relationship of the project to the foundation? ===== 
Yes. The OSGeo Community project logo is visible on the project homepage. Project presentations also identify the OSGeo project status.

===== Has an effort been made to brand the project web site with OSGeo foundation web styling and branding marks? ===== 
There was always a link with OSGeo (including branding such as logos) as the ZOO-Project's initial goal was to become a "standardized bus" on top of OSGeo softwares so reference to OSGeo was there from the begining. note that the OSGeo Project in Incubation was added when we was accepted by the board to enter in incubation process. 

=== Code Copyright Review ===

===== Has a Code Provenance Review document been prepared for the project? ===== 
Yes, the Code Provenance Review is available at: [[ProvenanceReview]].

===== Have issues raised in the provenance review been adequately addressed? ===== 
Some issue about the mixture between BSD and MIT-X11 was found long time ago in ZOO-API.

===== Are Committer Responsibilities Guidelines covering legal issues in place? ===== 
Yes, we used the GDAL Project RFC 3 as a base document to create our own, available at [http://zoo-project.org/docs/community/developer.html here].  PSC should adopt the document. Committers agreement are coming.




