
*[http://wiki.osgeo.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code_2013 Google Summer of Code 2013 OSGeo wiki page.]


== ZOO-Project 2013 GSoC Ideas  ==

Enter ideas for development projects here. '''Note these are just suggestions - students are welcome to propose projects based on their own interests''' that relate to the ZOO-Project. Our current efforts are based on the following projects: 

*http://www.zoo-project.org/ 

You can find the source code, tutorials, the project mailing list and various other information at the links above. 

To give you an idea about possible GSoC projects, here are some suggestions: 

=== ZOO-Kernel related ideas  ===

Migrating the current SpiderMonkey JavaScript support by Google V8. This v8 porting should be handled in straightforward manner. Keeping the availability of the ZOO-api.js and ZOO-proj4js.js automatic loading mechanisms, keeping specific C functions made available in the JavaScript environment and which currently available in the current implementation.

Add you idea here ...

=== ZOO-API related ideas  ===

Upgrade the JavaScript ZOO-API to the current OpenLayers version.

Expand the Python ZOO-API.

Add you idea here ...

==== ZOO-Service related ideas ====

Intgrating more GDAL raster tools as ZOO-Service.

Add you idea here ...

=== Other ideas ===

Produce a ZOO-Project demo package for multiple plaform target (such as Windows 7, MacOS X and GNU/Linux). This demo package should contain a demo dataset and a demo application interracting with ZOO-Kernel to process the data.

Add you idea here ...

=== Lots of other options  ===

There are a lot of other possibilities that we would be happy to discuss with any students interested. Best you contact us on the ZOO-Discuss
mailing list:

*http://lists.osgeo.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/zoo-discuss 

== Mentor Candidates  ==

The following individuals are potentially willing to serve as ZOO-Project mentors or co-mentors. 

*If you wish to be a Mentor add your name and e-mail

*Gérald Fenoy gerald [dot] fenoy [at] geolabs [dot] fr
*Trevor Clarke - tclarke [at] ball [dot] com - I'm mentoring for Opticks as well so I do have some limited time but I'm willing to help as a co-mentor or if a student is interested in expanding the Python support or working on the v8 engine. (I have some v8 experience)



