## PSC meeting 10 {#psc_meeting_10}

The PSC meeting will be held on irc.freenode.net in the
[\#zoo-project](irc://irc.freenode.net/#zoo-project) channel. If some
IRC problem occur, the meeting will be exceptionally held on Skype.

### Date

17 January 2011, [12:00:00 UTC
time](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?day=17&month=1&year=2011&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=0)

### Agenda

-   ZOO 1.2.0 release status
-   Launching ZOO [Sponsorship](Sponsorship "wikilink") Plan
-   ZOO New Web Site Feedback

### Summary

7 PSC members attended the meeting.

Agenda 1: ZOO 1.2.0 release status

-   -   Nick pointed out the on-going work using the Timeline link

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   -   Gerald gave an overview of the recent and numerous improvements
        of ZOO-Kernel
        -   Remove memory leaks
            [(link)](http://zoo-project.org/trac/search?q=leaks)
        -   BBOX data support
            [(link)](http://zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/ZooWebSite/ZooServices/ZCFGReference#BoundingBoxDatanode)
        -   Add JIT compilator support and improved the Java support in
            ZOO-Kernel
        -   Input/Output binaries support for C, Java and Python
        -   ZOO API code and documentation improved

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   -   Members discussed about the GRASS support for the ZOO 1.2
        release
        -   Venka said that the GRASS support is challenging and slowing
            the release. He also pointed out that after the november
            tests in Japan, some of the vector modules worked.
        -   Gerald said that the GRASS7 bridge should be ok after the
            recent improvements with binary support
        -   Nick said some more testing are needed on both vector and
            raster GRASS modules using Soeren\'s WPS-Bridge
        -   Markus installed GRASS7 on the official ZOO server to make
            tests possible. He also said that Luca can help with the
            GRASS support.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   -   Members agreed that the date of the ZOO 1.2 release must be
        discussed and fixed by email.

Agenda 2: Launching ZOO [Sponsorship](Sponsorship "wikilink") Plan

-   -   Jeff and Markus provided feedbacks on how the sponsorship is
        managed in other projects.
    -   Members agreed that an official call for sponsors on zoo-dicuss
        and osgeo-dicusss was not needed.
    -   Members agreed that the ZOO PSC Chair must send email to
        existing sponsors about their annual sponsorship \'renewal\'
    -   Gerald said he wants the GeoLabs sponsorship money to be spent
        for the Montreal code sprint (2 ZOO people venue)
    -   Nick said that depending the sponsorship plan success, some
        money should be spent to improve ZOO Documentation
    -   Members agreed that the ZOO Sponsorship money can be spent at
        the discretion of the PSC Chair up to 500â‚¬, then the PSC need to
        be consulted.
    -   ZOO sponsorship levels and PayPal account were recalled

Agenda 3: ZOO New Web Site Feedback

-   -   Members gave good feedback on the general layout, trac and demos
    -   Members talked about some problems remaining on the website
        (browser support, fluidity of the ui depending on the resolution
        screen\...)
    -   Members agreed that the copyright should be updated to 2010-2011
        in both ZOO Website and ZOO trunk files.

Meeting closed.
