
== PSC meeting #2 ==

=== Date ===

scheduled Wednesday, 21 April 2010 [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=4&day=21&hour=13&min=0&sec=0 at , 13:00 UTC time]

=== Agenda ===

*PSC [/PSC/PSC:-process PSC guidelines proposal] page review and approval
*Launch review (discuss initial feedback) and next steps
*Possible funding for development (includes documentation and quality assurance)
*should the [[Users]] page have an interactive map of where users are located, or maybe we should display a map of where ZOO is being downloaded?  Thoughts?
*Next meeting schedule

=== Summary ===
'''Date/Time:''' 27th April, 2010. 13:00 till 16:40 UTC
Members: Nicolas BOZON, Massimiliano CANNATA (aka Maxi), Gerald FENOY, 
Hirofumi HAYASHI, Venkatesh RAGHAVAN (aka Venka), Satoshi SEKIGUCHI were 
present. Daniel KASTL, Jeff McKENNA, Markus NETELER could not be present 
because of other engagements.

PSC members decided to have a meeting chair on rotation basis. Venka volunteered to be the Chair for the meeting.

'''Agenda 1)''' PSC guidelines proposal page review and approval http://www.zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/PSC/process

Members agreed in general about the proposed guidelines. Maxi suggested the about the PSC guideline
a) Add mention that PSC we also vote for ZOO svn access.
b) Clarifying the PSC voting process by clearly stating that “A proposal will be accepted if it receives +2 with the voting of the majority of all eligible members and no vetoes (-1)”. All members agreed to this clarification. Maxi will edit the PSC guideline wiki to reflect this clarification in the PSC Guideline and approval for corrections will be 
by voting on PSC ML.

Venka mentioned about electing PSC chair. PSC members agreed on one year tenure for the Chair. Gerald moved a motion volunteering to the the PSC chair for the next one year. Nick seconded the motion and all PSC members concurred. Gerald was unanimously elected as a PSC Chair for the period between 27 April 2010 till 26 April 2011.

'''Agenda 2)''' Launch review (discuss initial feedback) and next steps

PSC members agreed about the need to 
a) make installation easier 
b) Address issues brought up in the ZOO-Discuss mailing list 
c) Develop more examples and Documentation for ZOO-API 
d) to further discuss this agenda item on ZOO-PSC mailing list.

'''Agenda 3)''' Possible funding for development (includes documentation and quality assurance)
a) PSC members agreed that the best way would be to seek funding through research projects to keep the ZOO development going.
b) PSC members suggested EU, FP7, G8 initiative and Japanese private company as a possible source of R&D funds.
c) PSC members from Japan also proposed to look into opportunity for inviting ZOO developers to Japan on short-term visits.

'''Agenda 4)''' should the Users page have an interactive map of where users are located, or maybe we should display a map of where ZOO is being downloaded? Thoughts?

a) PSC members concluded that it was too early to have the interactive user location map
b) Need to make ZOO-Project page Webstats (viewed pages, downloads, etc.) available to PSC members. Appropriate measures to make Webstats available will be discussed in the ZOO-PSC ML.

'''Agenda 5)''' Next meeting Schedule
a) It was agreed that the next PSC meeting to be scheduled as below;
 http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=5&day=19&hour=22&min=0&sec=0

Venka moved motion to close the meeting and provide draft summary of PSC-ML. The motion was accepted and the meeting was closed.




