

=== PSC meeting 7 ===

The PSC meetings was held on irc.freenode.net in the #zoo-project channel

==== Date ====

20 October 2010, 13:00 till 14:45 UTC

==== Agenda ====

*ZOO Kernel recent improvements and release plans
*ZOO [http://www.zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/Sponsorship Sponsorship Plan] and PayPal account
*ZOO Workshop simplification and translation 
*ZOO website
*Using OSGeo infrastructure (SVN, Trac, mailing lists, etc.)
*Time and date for next meeting

==== Summary ====
'''DRAFT Version (23 October 2010)'''

'''Date&Time'''  20th Oct, 2010. 13:00 till 14:45 UTC Members: Nicolas BOZON, Maria BROVELLI, Massimiliano CANNATA, Gerald FENOY, Hirofumi HAYASHI, Venkatesh RAGHAVAN, Daniel KASTL, Jeff McKENNA, Markus NETELER were present at the meeting. Satoshi SEKIGUCHI was not present at the meeting.

Gerald volunteered to be the Chair for the meeting.

'''Agenda 1)''' ZOO Kernel recent improvements and release plans

PSC members were briefed by Gerald and Nicolas about recent improvements/enhancements of the ZOO-Kernel. Briefly the 
enhancements are; Perl support, improved error management,
MS-Windows Build in the works, ZOO Kernel running as an 
XPCOM component, cleaner code, minimized memory leaks.
A draft ZOO-kernel Roadmap describing priorities and goals over
the period of next 12 months will be prepared by Gerald on ZOO-Wiki
and provided to PSC as RFC document. The roadmap will be approved
by vote on PSC mailing list before the next PSC meeting on 
Nov. 2010.  

'''Agenda 2)'''  ZOO Sponsorship plan and paypal account

PSC members will provide comments about draft sponsorship
plan available at http://www.zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/Sponsorship.
The deadline for comments is 1st November 2010. It was decided 
to have PayPal account to operate sponsorship funds. Gerald
to create PayPal account. Alternative arrangements for
fund management may be considered in the future.

POLIMI, SUPSI and FEM agreed to become new Knowledge Partners for 
ZOO-Project and encourage research using ZOO at their respective
institutions.

'''Agenda 3)''' ZOO Workshop simplification and translation.
Improvements in FOSS4G2010 workshop material including
progress internationalization and translation were reported.
Progress with Japanese and Italian translation. Workshop
material with localized data and language support will be
made available for ZOO Workshop at FOSS4G2010 in Tokyo / Osaka
in Nov 2010.

'''Agenda 4)''' OSGeo infrastructure use/not use

Jeff to prepare RFC about migration to OSGeo infrastructure and
also ZOO incubation in OSGeo. RFC to be prepared before the
November 2010 PSC meeting and discussed at the meeting.

'''Agenda 5)''' ZOO Website

Nick proposed mid-December 2010 as timeline for ZOO Web-Site 
renewal, enhancements etc. Demos with international data and
improved documentation to be added in the renewed website.

'''Agenda 4)''' Next meeting Schedule

Date&Time to be decided on PSC ML.

Gerald moved motion to close the meeting. The motion was accepted and the meeting was closed.








