
== PSC meeting 17 ==

The PSC meeting was held on Skype. 

=== Date ===

Thursday, 13 September 2012, [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=09&day=13&hour=13&min=0&sec=0 at,  13:00 UTC]

=== Agenda ===

*ZOO-Project Status
*ZOO-Project OSGeo incubation Process status
*ZOO-Project release plan
*ZOO-Project packaging

=== Summary ===
The PSC meeting was held skype on September 13th 2012 at [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=09&day=13&hour=13&min=0&sec=0 at,  13:00 UTC]

7 ZOO-PSC members attended this meeting (Daniel , Gerald, Hayashi, Jeff, Markus, Nicolas, Venka).

*Agenda 1: ZOO-Project Status

a)	Gerald mentioned new release of ZOO-Kernel is almost there. 
b)	The new Kernel release will include .NET (C# support) support for coding services 
c)	mapserver+javascript+python support included in the new ZOO-kernel and also successfully working on Win32 and Win64 would need some more time and effort
d)	New way of developing GRASS7 based processes is also in the works and more details will be discussed on the mailing list
e)	Venka mentioned about some requests for ZOO-Training from Vietnam and India. He also suggested to have ZOO-Trainers (train-the-trainer) kind of workshop when updated ZOO-Kernel package us released.

*Agenda 2: ZOO-Project OSGeo incubation Process status

a)	Not much progress with incubation as yet. Need to follow-up (Nicolas and Gerald) with Incubation Committee and also mentor (FrankW) and also explore possibility to have an additional mentor if that could help in speeding up the incubation process.
b)	The OSGeo Website still mentions "ZOO-Project" as only Zoo and the links is to OSGeo Live-DVD (http://live.osgeo.org/en/overview/zoo-project_overview.html) instead of www.zoo-project.org. Need to be fixed and Jeff agreed to take up on this matter with OSGeo IncoM

*Agenda item 3) ZOO-Project release plan 4) ZOO-Project packaging were related discussions made under items 1 and 2 above.
a)	Venka proposed Gerald to send draft release plan on the PSC ML and all PSC members present at the meeting voted +1 for Gerald to prepare and send the plan including packaging details to PSC ML.

*Agenda item 5) Proposal from Venka about inviting Angelos to the ZOO-PSC. The proposal to be voted on the PSC ML

*Agenda item 6) Next PSC meeting scheduled for October 10th 2012 22:00UTC 

*Meeting closed



