
== PSC meeting #4 ==

=== Date ===

Scheduled for Wednesday, 16 June 2010 [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=6&day=16&hour=13&min=0&sec=0 at , 13:00 UTC time]

=== Agenda ===

*Decide meeting Chair
*ZOO Workshop at FOSS4G2010
*Report on ZOO presentation at Trento, Italy
*PSC [/ZOO-Project/ZOO-Project/wiki/PSC/process PSC guidelines proposal] page review and approval
*Next meeting schedule

=== Summary ===

Date/Time: 16th June, 2010. 13:00 till 14:20 UTC Members: Nicolas BOZON, 
Massimiliano CANNATA (aka Maxi), Gerald FENOY, Hirofumi HAYASHI, 
Venkatesh RAGHAVAN (aka Venka), Satoshi SEKIGUCHI were present. Daniel 
KASTL, Jeff McKENNA, Markus NETELER could not be present because of 
other engagements.

PSC members decided to have a meeting chair on rotation basis. Venka 
volunteered to be the Chair for the meeting.

Agenda 1) ZOO Workshop at FOSS4G2010

PSC members were briefed by Gerald and Nicolas about preparations for 
ZOO Workshop at FOSS4G2010-Barcelona. The workshop will consists on a 
first short presentation of internal mechanisms, and participants would 
be shown how to create their own services in both C and Python. The PSC 
members could review the workshop material before final submission to 
FOSS4G2010 organizers on 15th July 2010.

Agenda 2)  Report on ZOO presentation at Trento, Italy.

PSC members were briefed by Gerald and Nicolas about preparations for 
ZOO Workshop at FOSS4G2010-Barcelona. This was very interesting meeting, 
and interaction with PyWPS and 52°N communities was very useful.

Agenda 3) PSC PSC guidelines proposal page review and approval
Massimiliano has made minor changes in the PSC guidelines at 
http://www.zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/PSC/process. Modifications are 
related to requirement of PSC members voting for SVN access and for 
quorum during voting procedure. Further discussion about these 
modifications can be done on PSC ML, if necessary

Agenda 4) Other items

a)	Gerald to contact Christian Kiehle of LatLon to discuss about WPS for 
Grid and possibility of implementing WPS as Grid Services using ZOO-Kernel
b)	Sekiguchi-san reported possibilities of funding WPS for Grid. The 
modalities will be discussed separately.

Agenda 4) Next meeting Schedule a) It was agreed that the next PSC 
meeting to be scheduled as below;
 
http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=7&day=21&hour=22&min=0&sec=0

Venka moved motion to close the meeting and provide draft summary of 
PSC-ML. The motion was accepted and the meeting was closed.



{{TracNotice|{{PAGENAME}}}}