
== PSC meeting 21 ==

The PSC meeting was conducted on irc.freenode.net in the  #zoo-project channel.

=== Time and Date ===

Monday, 12 November 2020 [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2020&month=11&day=12&hour=13&min=0&sec=0 at,  13:00 UTC]

=== Agenda ===

*Short presentation of the ongoing developments in the ZOO-Project,
*Next steps in the incubation process and organisation of a sprint,
*Possibility to use the Variable Naming section of the gdal [https://gdal.org/development/rfc/rfc8_devguide.html#variable-naming RFC 8] for the ZOO-Kernel source code and integration in the documentation,
*Documentation effort especially about the new components using websocketd and services (not WPS) associated to the OGC API - Processes HTML UI,
*Migration of the current server to other services, for exemple using GitHub in place of Subversion for source code versioning system.
*Propose integration of new member in the PSC,
*Plan budget request for the next year.
*Schedule next PSC meeting.

=== Summary ===

Meeting started at 2:03 with Venka as meeting chair, no-one has taken the role of scribing.

A presentation of current ongoing developments has been made by djay, mainly about the OGC API - Processes implementation that was briefly introduced with help of jmckenna. The announcement of participation in PHIDIAS-HPC project  has ben made and rebirth of 2015 ideas using rabbitmq for messaging between multiple ZOO-Kernel versions. Despite the fact that the OGC API - Processes is still under development, djay will come back in the coming weeks to propose a release plan.

*Motion 1: djay to come up with plan for new release by the end of Nov, 2020.

 Votes: djay, venka, jmckenna: +1

*Motion 2: Gerald to take part in upcoming sprint
 
 Votes: djay, venka, jmckenna, nbozon, kalxas[m]: +1

*Motion 3: Prepare test suite linked with Github move

 Votes: djay: +1

*Motion 4: djay and jmckenna come up with incubation plan by end of nov. 2020

 Votes: venka, jmckenna, djay, kalxas[m]: +1

*Motion 5: Use Variable Naming section of the gdal â€‹RFC 8  for ZOO-Kernel source code

 Votes: venka, djay, jmckenna, kalxas[m], nbozon: +1

*Motion 6: Take up OGC API related documentation in 2021 after getting ZOO-Project incubated

 Votes: venka, djay, jmckenna, kalxas[m]: +1

*Motion 7: propose new PSC members (after confirming) by end of Nov. 2020

 Votes: venka, djay, jmckenna, kalxas[m], nbozon: +1

*Motion 8: djay to prepare draft budget after upcoming code sprint

 Votes: venka, djay, jmckenna, kalxas[m], nbozon: +1

Date for the next PSC meeting: 2020-11-12 same time.

Motion 9: end of 2020-12-10 PSC meeting
Votes: venka, djay, jmckenna: +1



