
== PSC meeting 10 ==

The PSC meeting will be held on irc.freenode.net in the [irc://irc.freenode.net/#zoo-project #zoo-project] channel. If some IRC problem occur, the meeting will be exceptionally held on Skype.

=== Date ===

17 January 2011, [http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?day=17&month=1&year=2011&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=0 12:00:00 UTC time]

=== Agenda ===

*ZOO 1.2.0 release status
*Launching ZOO [[Sponsorship]] Plan
*ZOO New Web Site Feedback

=== Summary ===

7 PSC members attended the meeting.

Agenda 1: ZOO 1.2.0 release status

****Nick pointed out the on-going work using the Timeline link

****Gerald gave an overview of the recent and numerous improvements of ZOO-Kernel
*****Remove memory leaks [http://zoo-project.org/trac/search?q=leaks (link)]
*****BBOX data support [http://zoo-project.org/trac/wiki/ZooWebSite/ZooServices/ZCFGReference#BoundingBoxDatanode (link)]
*****Add JIT compilator support and improved the Java support in ZOO-Kernel
*****Input/Output binaries support for C, Java and Python 
*****ZOO API code and documentation improved

****Members discussed about the GRASS support for the ZOO 1.2 release
*****Venka said that the GRASS support is challenging and slowing the release. He also pointed out that after the november tests in Japan, some of the vector modules worked. 
*****Gerald said that the GRASS7 bridge should be ok after the recent improvements with binary support
*****Nick said some more testing are needed on both vector and raster GRASS modules using Soeren's WPS-Bridge
*****Markus installed GRASS7 on the official ZOO server to make tests possible. He also said that Luca can help with the GRASS support.

***Members agreed that the date of the ZOO 1.2 release must be discussed and fixed by email.
    
Agenda 2: Launching ZOO [[Sponsorship]] Plan

****Jeff and Markus provided feedbacks on how the sponsorship is managed in other projects.
****Members agreed that an official call for sponsors on zoo-dicuss and osgeo-dicusss was not needed.
****Members agreed that the ZOO PSC Chair must send email to existing sponsors about their annual sponsorship 'renewal'
****Gerald said he wants the GeoLabs sponsorship money to be spent for the Montreal code sprint (2 ZOO people venue)
****Nick said that depending the sponsorship plan success, some money should be spent to improve ZOO Documentation
****Members agreed that the ZOO Sponsorship money can be spent at the discretion of the PSC Chair up to 500â‚¬, then the PSC need to be consulted.
****ZOO sponsorship levels and PayPal account were recalled

Agenda 3: ZOO New Web Site Feedback

****Members gave good feedback on the general layout, trac and demos
****Members talked about some problems remaining on the website (browser support, fluidity of the ui depending on the resolution screen...)
****Members agreed that the copyright should be updated to 2010-2011 in both ZOO Website and ZOO trunk files.

Meeting closed.



