
== W-07: Practical Introduction to ZOO, the Powerful WPS Platform ==

The ZOO-Project provides a WPS (Web Processing Service) compliant and developer-friendly framework to easily create and connect OGC Webservices.

ZOO is based on open source software and will be released as open source under the MIT/X11 licence in April 2010. ZOO-Kernel is made of a powerful and extensible server-side application package, that is able to load dynamic libraries and to orchestrate Service Providers in several common programming languages. This make it easy to setup spatial-based Web services using FOSS4G and existing libraries, on Windows, Mac-OS and Linux.
During this workshop, participants will install the ZOO-Kernel and related material on their computers; upon installation the users will be ready to use and implement WPS 1.0.0 services. Participants will first learn the basics of WPS and how the WPS requests such as GetCapabilities, DescribeProcess and Execute work. XML responses will be explained in detail.
After learning basic functionality of WPS and becoming familiar with the ZOO-Kernel internal structure, the participants will learn to setup and create Web services step-by-step. Example services will be based on converting/reprojecting vector and raster datasets online, using GDAL/OGR and ZOO's multi-language support capabilities that allow implementing of WPS in C, Python, Java, Fortran on the server-side. The ZOO configuration file (.zcfg) setup will be especially emphasized, as well as the GDAL/OGR based Web services.
At the end of the workshop, participants will be able to install ZOO and to create fully functionnal Web services. They will also be able to download documentation, presentation and ZOO-Kernel binaries and source code from the ZOO-Project official website ( http://www.zoo-project.org ).

=== presenter ===

G. Fenoy (1), N. Bozon (2).
(1) GeoLabs SARL, (2) 3LIZ SARL.

=== author's bio ===

Gérald FENOY obtained his Master degree in Computer Science for University of Montpellier II. After graduation he worked in a private company as a developer for Web-GIS application and PostGIS based system integration.

He later established his company "Geolabs" in 2005 and has done several projects in France and overseas. He has been actively developing and promoting OSGeo technologies through training workshops and publications. At Geolabs he created the API for OOCMS (Object Oriented ContentManagement System which is a powerful document and map production system using OpenOffice UNO server and FOSS4G tools. He is a regular participant and contributor to FOSS4G International Conferences. He has also contributed several enhancements and bug-fixes to Mapserver, GDAL and Tilecache.

He is presently working on implementing an ZOO OWS Platform in C++. His present research interests are distributed geospatial web services, sensor network and cloud computing.

=== workshop level ===

Intermediate.

=== attendee's previous knowledge ===

Basics of WPS, bascis of C and Python language.




